I was born in a little town
called Adair, Iowa
—actually out on the farm​—
and that was in 1930.
I was born in 1931,
also in a small town in Iowa.
My father wanted to be a farmer.
So we moved to a farm,
and I grew up on a farm.
And then the Watchtower Study
of a little group,
and then a little congregation
was in our home.
And happily, when Peggy’s father
came into the truth,
the family came to our place
to the Watchtower Study.
I was—I guess at that time—
eight or nine,
and Peggy was one year younger.
But the thing was,
they moved away just after about one year.
Well, I started pioneering
in September 1948.
Gilead was what I wanted.
I didn’t apply for Bethel
because I liked the field service,
and I thought South America, Africa,
countries where there is still so much to do
—that’s what I wanted.
I was called to Gilead
in 1951, in February.
The assignment after attending Gilead
was a great surprise.
Brother Schroeder, one of the instructors,
he said: “You will have
“a very wonderful opportunity,
“being assigned to the German Bethel.
“There are brothers there
“who have been in concentration camps
for up to nine years,
and you can learn very much
from these brothers.”
And that was very true.
In 1953,
at the convention in New York,
I saw a beautiful young sister
standing in the cafeteria line
next to my cafeteria line.
And I looked twice,
and it was Peggy.
So we were together
for the rest of the convention
and decided that we would correspond
and think about serving together.
In 1955 we married.
I had received
the assignment to circuit work.
We were assigned to northern Germany.
When we began circuit work, I was 24.
I felt completely inadequate
because I’d been serving in Bethel
and had no training
that would qualify me
to serve as a circuit overseer
—that was my feeling.
In the first place,
the sisters with me always got nervous
with me not being able to speak correctly.
So they would take over the conversation,
and I stood there
and didn’t understand anything.
But with time, you pick it up.
After two years,
I could understand everything
in the theocratic language,
but in the kitchen I was still lost.
It was nine years for circuit work
and, at the conclusion, district work.
And then we were called back into Bethel.
The biggest shock for me
was when Brother Knorr asked me
if I would be branch overseer.
And that was at the convention
of 1969 in Nuremberg.
And despite different arguments
that I presented,
I got a letter later saying
that I’d have that assignment.
For about 40 years,
we had the wonderful privilege
of doing zone work or,
as it’s now stated,
being representative of headquarters.
So it was wonderful to visit
somewhat over 90 different countries.
We became acquainted
with Jehovah’s lovely family
—the worldwide brotherhood, the unity,
and seeing how the brothers everywhere
are devoted to Jehovah
and want to serve him faithfully
under sometimes very difficult conditions.
I would say,
sometimes we benefited more
from the visit
than the brothers we were visiting
because it was so faith-strengthening.
When we got this privilege
of traveling
to many branches in the zone work,
we were able to engage in the field ministry
in numerous countries,
which I never would have had, of course,
if I would have just gone
into missionary service.
So I said to myself,
‘Accept every assignment
Jehovah gives you
and you’ll find that you have
the greatest blessings possible.’
Since the 1st of January 1952,
I’ve been able to keep
full-time service as my career.
And it’s something
I certainly wouldn’t have changed
for anything else.
We have often said,
“Where would we be today
if we hadn’t taken up full-time service?”
Certainly, we would not have enjoyed
so many things as we have in our lifetime.
There are so many young,
talented brothers and sisters
who are working and helping.
We encourage them to make full-time service
in Jehovah’s organization their goal in life.